We have an unbelievable treat next.
Uh a founder who's touching a ton of
lives and um who's been at it for a very
long time. How many people here have
been in a Waymo?
Okay,
>> [laughter]
>> that's a relief.
The chef eats his own food. I do. I do a
lot of it. All right. And how many
people love the Waymo experience?
Rock on. I'm a daily active now. It's
incredible. Excellent. Thank you. Um we
have here the creator
uh a a man who has been at this mission
for get this founders who've been in AI
since 2022
almost 20 years
building in the autonomous vehicle
challenge. And he has not only been at
this, he's been at it in the great
times, at the tough times. He's been
persistent and he has created something
that is unlike anything else on Earth.
Truly exceptional. Please join me in
welcoming DMITRI DOLGOV.
>> [applause]
>> THANKS. GREAT TO BE HERE. ALL RIGHT,
DMITRI. SO we've got about 25 minutes
together. Uh the goal is to understand a
little bit about you, what makes you
tick, what has made you persist since
the early days of the DARPA challenge 21
years ago all the way through Waymo uh
early days to today and the future. Um
let's start on you and then we'll get
into technology very quickly. Sound
good?
>> Sounds good. Okay. So Dmitri, you are
known by your team as technically
brilliant,
incredibly intense, but also very kind
and humble.
Um you were
born in the Soviet Union, raised in the
States, and then chose to go back to one
of the most prestigious and intense
physics programs on the planet in
Moscow. How did those first few years of
your life shape you and how did it shape
your character?
So my parents went to the same school,
so that to a large degree drove my
decision to go back. I went to high
school. I actually traveled around quite
a bit. I spent a year in Japan, then
went to uh high school in the States and
came back to college to do math and
physics in in Russia. Uh so that was the
same school that my parents went to and
I kind of really grew up uh
hearing stories about what it is like to
be at that place. I really wanted to go
back. And I think you know in terms of
how it shaped me, I think it really set
the foundation
uh you know technical foundation and the
you know in those early days in college
one of the most important thing is you
know acquiring the ability to learn and
independently explore, so I think that
really helped me in my future career.
Now, you did this very intense program
at Moscow Institute of Physics and
Technology, and then you decided to keep
going on the AI path. You earned your
PhD also in AI. And then you pretty
quickly were attracted to autonomous
vehicles. In in '05 you were part of the
DARPA challenge. Can you tell us about
those early days, what drew you to
autonomy?
That was kind of a light switch
moment for me. Right? I you know in the
early days when I went to college and
then grad school it was more you know
about just the learning of the
fundamentals and I
didn't have a at all a clear picture and
idea of what I wanted to do after.
Right? And then I think the timing just
was just incredibly lucky that this was
when I was finishing up grad school, the
urban challenges uh the grand challenge
and then the urban challenge the one
that I took place in
were happening and it clicked. It was
just uh the the the technology is
incredibly interesting. The mission is
so powerful that nothing else come close
and it's a real product there you can be
hands-on experience it yourself. So it
really checked all the boxes for me. And
as you said this has been 20-some years
ago, you know who's counting, uh and
then I've I've never looked back and
that's what I've been doing since.
Amazing. So Waymo started out of a
project at uh Stanford Automotive Lab.
There were two sides of this building.
There was the autonomy side and then
there was a solar car side. Fun fact, um
I was an idealist, I worked on the solar
car.
I got that bet very wrong.
Uh you bet on autonomy. Tell us about
the first few years of Waymo from from
'09 to the formative years.
So we started in 2009. That was at the
time the Google self-driving car
project. Um and the first couple of
years it was all about
learning the problem space,
understanding you know what it means to
try to put a autonomous vehicle on
public roads. Uh so
when we started in service of you know
those goals of learning and
understanding the problem space, we
created a couple of goals for ourselves.
One was to drive 100,000 miles total in
full autonomy, which at the time was
kind of not heard of.
Uh and the second one was to drive 10
routes. Each one was 100 miles long.
They were all over the Bay Area, uh
chosen to be you know very difficult.
And we had to do each one from beginning
to end in full autonomy. You know still
with a person behind the wheel uh that
you know could take control, but the
challenge was to complete each one
without an intervention. So it was a
small team of us, it was about you know
a dozen people. I was the early crazy
startup days. Yeah, everybody working
24/7, you know writing code and building
hardware during the day and then you
know doing some testing at night. Uh and
it took us about 18 months to complete
uh both of those challenges.
Incredible. It seemed impossible at the
time. Now you guys are on hundreds of
millions of miles. Absolutely. Um okay,
so early Waymo days, extreme challenge,
starting to achieve there. Next few
years, you have a reputation in your
team
for grinding really hard. You were
sleeping at the office. Tell us about
Dmitri in the first few years of Waymo
and and how you formed your leadership
style.
I got to say those early days was
probably the most fun I've ever had in
my professional life. And it is that
that
you know
momentum and that pace of an you know
early startup days. All right, when you
are making so much progress you know
every hour of every day. And you're
doing everything, right? You are uh
working on setting up the hardware in
the cars and then you know configuring
and calibrating the sensors and the you
know your pose estimation system. And
then you are writing software during the
day and it's everything, right? It's the
core of the you know the software, the
algorithms that drive the car. It is all
of the tools
uh and UIs and the user experience in
the car. So you're doing everything.
You're learning at an insane rate and
you're making progress at an insane
rate. So [snorts] uh that's that was uh
the those were the early days uh of
project Chauffeur. And then you know in
those couple of years we've convinced
ourselves that you know yes this is
worth pursuing, so we doubled down and
started actually building towards the
future of a of a fully autonomous
product.
Okay, so exciting first few years,
intense, fast-paced, technically really
difficult. Now take us to 2016-17 for a
moment. This was a period where we
actually had a hype cycle in AI. Turns
out there's been a few of them. And
AV autonomous vehicle was at the center
of that hype cycle. I mean I remember
just so many companies going after this.
And then there was a massive slump.
And when most people gave up or failed
or fell apart, you guys persisted. And
you were a leader in that persistence.
For all the builders in this room, how
did you navigate through the hard times?
So first a comment on you know
what these cycles kind of you know look
like to me and you know how I've seen
them. And you said there there's been
many some in AV but more generally. And
kind of the what often leads to a cycle
like this is some
rapid some breakthrough that leads to
very rapid progress in the kind of the
early parts of the problem and very
rapid investment flow in the early part
of the problem. And and in the AVs the
the problem has always had this property
that it's very easy to get started, but
it's you know very difficult to take it
all the way to a real product, full
autonomy and superhuman performance. Uh
so it's somewhat natural given those
ingredients that whenever there's been
you know big breakthrough in technology,
whether it's you know convolutional nets
or you know transformers or you know
large language models, it's led to the
cycle okay now the problem is going to
be you know very And it kind of reshapes
the early part of the curve, but it you
know doesn't change the long tail of it.
Uh so
in for us
I think it was
understanding
that it's
not going to be an easy problem. And but
it's a very important one. And having
you know believing in the mission I
think it's uh today
worldwide somebody loses their life to a
crash on our roads every 26 seconds.
So I guess it's the combination of
knowing that the mission is
really really important and then
understanding what you're up against and
not looking for a kind of easy wins or
quick solutions or silver bullets that
help the team you know have the right
stamina to go the distance.
Brilliant. So you guys were in this
moment where it was really easy to get
started. A lot of people got there, but
you guys actually persisted. And got
through to the other side with a truly
magical experience. Pretty much every
hand in this room went up. Truly magical
experience because of that persistence.
Let's talk about technology today.
A lot of people are talking about world
models. You have had all the components
of world models for many years.
How do you think about a world model and
what is Waymo's version of a world
model?
Uh yeah, there are a few things that
a few terms that people use nowadays. Uh
people talk about world models,
world action models, omni models, you
know, visual language action models. And
at the core of each [snorts] there's an
ingredient that is relevant uh and
really important for Waymo and for what
we've been building in our AI ecosystem.
So, at the
core of our AI ecosystem is what we call
the Waymo foundation model and it powers
three main pillars of our AI and our
tech. So, the driver,
the simulator, and the critic.
Right? And those are
very related but distinct tasks. Uh so,
at the core of what our foundation model
needs to be capable of
uh are things like it needs to
understand how the world works, the
physics, the dynamics of the the
physical world.
Uh
and it needs to understand, you know,
what it is to be a good driver and you
know, how [snorts] the effects of the
actions of that driver or our agent on
other agents in the world. And then we
need to instantiate those in that
physical agent that we're putting on the
roads. So, in a way that foundational
model that that we've been building over
the years is
uh a multimodal world action language
model. All right, so it's multimodal in
that it needs to be able to reason about
not just, you know, images or video but
also other sensors like clay lidars and
radars.
Uh it is a world action model in that,
you know, it really has to have a deep
precise understanding of the 3D spatial
properties of the world, the dynamics,
the physics, the um
the
uh behavioral aspects of other agents
like cars, pedestrians, cyclists, and so
forth. Uh
and we are not just, you know, passively
modeling those worlds, we're an active
participant in it. Uh so, we don't not
only have to, you know, the world model
has to be controllable but also, you we
need to have a deep understanding of
what it means to be a, you know, good
agent in that world. Uh and finally,
it's aligned with language and that
allows us to kind of pull in the general
world knowledge of a VLM into our model
that is very, very useful in giving us a
boost in the uh
uh in understanding the semantics and
the deep social aspects of driving.
Right? [snorts]
And we've been, you know, uh working on
productionizing that model, you know,
for years and it really it um
requires an extremely high degree of
performance and accuracy and realism in
every aspect of what we just talked
about.
Brilliant. So, with this driver,
simulator, critic
architecture,
uh there's also been a lot of
conversation about end-to-end
architectures.
Is that the
appropriate dichotomy? How do we think
about the approach to getting us to
extreme performance efficiency
autonomous vehicles that are
totally generalizable? Yeah, so to be
very clear, you know, the world model
that is described, uh the Waymo
foundation model, is an end-to-end
model.
Uh so, when we talk about an end-to-end
model, typically we mean that, you know,
it's one model that goes from sensors to
decisions or actions.
>> [snorts]
>> And uh you know, there are some very
nice properties of uh such a model.
One of the most important ones is that
uh
you
it learns the right rich representations
between different components of the
system like the encoder and the decoder
or the perception and the planning part
of your system.
As [snorts] opposed to something where
that interface is engineered, which is
not sufficient for a, you know, a task
like driving.
Uh now, I do think there's a a false
dichotomy there that's, you know,
end-to-end or something else.
Uh really, it my mind has always been
the question of, you know, it's
end-to-end
and then, you know, what else? And what
else do you need to build if you want to
have a product that is fully autonomous,
has superhuman level of safety, and you
want to deploy it at scale and drive
hundreds of millions of miles. And there
it turns out that kind of the basic
vanilla, you know, end-to-end system is
insufficient, right? So, it's there's a
massive difference between using
end-to-end versus purely relying on it.
So, at Waymo we've really gone beyond
that kind of basic vanilla end-to-end
approach and we've augmented the learned
representation with structured
materialized intermediate
representation. And what that allows us
to do
are a few very important things that you
might not actually need if you are, you
know, building a different product, if
you're building a driver assist system
or, you know, a prototype, a demo, or a
small scale deployment. But again, those
things are absolutely critical if you
want to go all the way to a fully
autonomous safe system with superhuman
performance. And those are things like
having extra validation at runtime in of
the agent that's running on the car in
the physical world. It's things like
richer training and evaluation recipes
that are very difficult or impractical
to do in a pure kind of basic end-to-end
system where this structured
materialized representation gives you a
boost in things like closed loop
evaluation, closed loop training, uh
rich reward functions for reinforcement
learning. So, that's been our approach.
And all the human feedback that you get
from support and
drivers dropping in and all of that,
it's essential to have this type of
architecture.
>> Exactly. Exactly.
Makes perfect sense.
So, not only have you innovated on the
software stack but also the hardware
stack. There's a sixth generation now of
Waymo driver and you guys have always
focused on being the driver.
Tell us about the new sixth generation
and what was it like the first time
you've interfaced with it? It was a so,
the sixth generation uh is our most
advanced uh hardware suite and sensor
suite yet. The focus there has been on
performance but also on simplification,
drastic cost reduction, and uh high
scale volume production. Uh
this is the uh
the driver that's powering our latest
vehicle platform, that's the O Hi.
Uh we
uh earlier this year started fully
autonomous operations. Uh it's currently
only open to employees but coming to
our, you know, all of the riders later
this year.
Uh and yeah, I I had a chance to take a
ride in one
as soon as we started
uh running fully autonomous operations.
And you know, they
I spent a lot of my life in various
generations of our cars. Every once in a
while there's uh kind of a new first
moment and that was definitely it. It's
just that they the cool car is designed
around the rider experience. It is
uh even though the external footprint of
the car is about the same as the i Pace
but inside you get in and it feels like
it's a living room. All right, there's
so much space in the back. We have new
screens. We have these doors that, you
know, slide open and will, you know,
open automatically when you approach the
car. So, I I I had a blast and I I can't
wait to have this car in our fleet open
to everyone. So, you guys are going
through a period of incredible scaling.
For for many years you were in the lab
R&D, surely.
It took 16 years-ish to get to 100
million miles, six months-ish to get to
200. Things continue to scale really
rapidly. 11 cities now, many, many more
um
on the horizon. Tell us what is it like
to scale a new city and then tell us
about your daily life with a Waymo. How
do you use it as a creator?
Well, there's a lot. Okay, so
exponential scaling. First of all,
absolutely. It's been a
phase transition for us in how we're
scaling. So,
to give you a couple of additional data
points, it took us eight years from the
day when we started our fully autonomous
operations
to the day when we had our service, our
uh our driver providing rides to the
public in four cities. Earlier this
year, just a few weeks ago, we launched
four cities in one day.
We've uh
given
over 20 million fully autonomous rides.
10 of those million happened in the last
seven months.
Amazing.
>> So, that's what exponential scaling
looks like.
>> Amazing. Uh
launching new cities, uh
there's, you know, operational
components, you know, show up. Uh you
know, you have to uh collect the data,
characterize the environment. Um I mean,
validate the driver.
Uh a significant part of it is starting
the conversation with the local
communities because it's a new thing,
it's a new product. So, it's on us to
earn the trust of the, you know, the the
people there.
Um and then um more often than not today
we're seeing that the driver is
generalizing incredibly well and it's
just a matter of high [snorts] fidelity
rigorous evaluate evaluation and
validation before we deploy the fully
autonomous product. And then uh we can,
you know, we grow from there.
And then the last, what was the last
part of the question? Oh, what is my
daily life? Yeah, it was a multi-part
question, yeah. Uh
Waymo I mean, Waymo is
uh my is how I get around nowadays.
Uh that's how I got here today. Uh it
was, you know, a a great ride from Palo
Alto up to San Francisco
uh on on freeways.
Uh
I my family use it. I have three kids.
They love Waymo. Uh they
they they I think nowadays they get
annoyed if on a rare occasion we have
to, you know, be in a car that's driven
by you know, myself or my wife or, you
know, another human being. They're like,
"Okay, what was going on there?"
>> same way at this point. Uh
they they love it. Uh it's been part of
their lives, you know, for the entirety
of their lives. There's
uh when we are
uh driving around, there's two things,
there's only two things that get cool
outs from my kids nowadays. It's doggies
and it's Waymos.
>> [snorts]
>> Nice.
Um okay.
Uh probably similar amounts of cognition
between those two.
Um, okay, so let let's talk about um,
uh, safety. You know, one of the most
meaningful, exciting parts of partnering
with Waymo has been the fact that
there's 1.19 million people a year on
Earth that die in road accidents. All
right, it is this is life or death. You
know, not only does it touch everyone in
this room, but everybody has some
connection who's been impacted by this.
Um, you have been about safety from the
very beginning.
And it's actually pretty hard, you know,
in a Silicon Valley where it's move fast
and break things and see what happens,
you guys have been incredibly patient
uh, with safety. Can you tell us about a
story that made it very real to you and
how you keep that safety culture at
Waymo?
>> [snorts]
>> So, the numbers you mentioned,
that's
what drives all of us at Waymo and
that's the status quo is not okay. All
right, we've kind of grown this over
time,
uh, but challenging the status quo is
really important to everyone at our
company. You're uh,
absolutely right that how you go about
building a system like this is different
from you might do in other areas, in
other fields, in other industries where
safety has to be the non-negotiable
foundation and you have to build that
into your everything that you do from
day one. Your model architecture, your
training and evaluation recipe is the
mindset of the team. It can be very
tempting to, you know, focus
[clears throat] on capability first and
get to the, you know, 90%
uh, very quickly, but how you go about
the first 90%
is totally different problem for, you
know, how you go about, you know,
getting to your next, you know, Nines.
So, get keeping that in mind and
focusing on safety as the non-negotiable
fundamental layer from day one is super
important. And then, uh, you know, today
we're driving more than uh, 4 million
miles in full autonomy per week.
Uh, and you see
a lot of
uh, events from the field and uh, today
we have the data
uh, over 170 million miles fully
autonomous miles where we see that the
Waymo driver is more than 13 times safer
than a human driver when it comes to
serious injury causing collisions in the
cities where we operate. And you see
that
sort of superhuman safety behavior
manifesting itself on the roads,
you know, daily. All right, I see
examples of, you know, recently there
was a little while ago there's an
example uh, that I saw of um, uh, uh, a
person
uh, I think it was a young woman on
electric scooter
on the road and then she lost control
and tripped and fell right in front of
the Waymo and the Waymo
uh, driver showed superhuman
uh, accuracy and reaction time and was
able to, you know, swerve and brake and
everybody walked away. So, it's uh,
things like this that, you know, uh,
my my uh, I myself personally and the
team, the whole team find very rewarding
uh, in terms of actually having a real
impact on the safety of our roads. And
the scale that we're operating, that 13x
reduction means that we are preventing a
serious injury
every 8 days.
And that impact will just grow as we
scale up. Wow.
We're going to open the room to audience
questions, a couple in in just a moment.
Before we jump in, I heard a story about
uh, the lidar detecting or the radar
detecting the footsteps of somebody
behind a bus. Did that happen and how
does that work? Yeah, yeah, this was one
of those moments where uh,
I was
positively surprised
by the emerging capability of our
system. And the situation was
uh, this was I think in San Francisco.
Uh, the Waymo driver was at an
intersection. There was a bus that
crossed uh, and we're, you know, sitting
there waiting at a red light. Uh, so the
bus crossed and stopped partially
blocking the intersection. So, our light
intersection. So, then our light turned
green. The Waymo driver started to
proceed and as it's proceeding,
it detects a pedestrian on the other
side of the bus.
And you know, you can't see through the
bus. It's, you know, uh, not through
lidars, not radars, not cameras, you
know, the the windows are reflecting the
people inside the bus.
Uh, and then, you know, starts to
react defensively and sure enough, a
pedestrian emerges from behind the bus
and then we're able to nudge around them
and everybody, you know, goes on their
way. So, when I saw that, I was I have a
blew my mind. I wasn't sure what was
going on. Um, I guess capable as
superhuman as the Waymo driver is, it
doesn't see through solid objects. So,
actually what turned out was happening
is that our lidar
had was bouncing the signal, you know,
under the bus and got a little bit of a
sparse return from the movement of the
person's feet under the bus and that was
enough for the Waymo AI to not only
detect that there's a pedestrian there,
but also make a prediction about what's
going to happen in the future and keep
everyone safe. Mind-blowing. Pretty uh,
unbelievable. We've got time for one
question from the group.
Uh, if anybody has
a key
Jim, sorry, no free codes. Not at this
one. No. Yes, Jim, please. Thank you.
Does this work? Yes. I was just saying
congratulations on all you've achieved.
It's really mind-blowing. If you think
about the next 5 to 10 years, really
focus on the business model, what are
the milestones, what happens in major
cities, what's going to be different
than where we are today? Just kind of
walk us through through your vision of
the future.
So, we're heads down in execution mode.
Uh,
>> [snorts]
>> we've transitioned from an intentional
sequential de-risking of the driver and
key parts of the business to rapid
parallel global commercialization. Uh,
that means uh, deploying the Waymo
driver
uh, in more places uh, across the United
States. Today we're in 11 cities uh,
operating fully autonomous and serving
uh, our riders. That uh, we're going to
expand in those existing places. We're
going to add new geographies, new
cities. We're also expanding
internationally. Announced that this
year we'll plan to offer a service in
London and in Tokyo. So, uh, you will
see us uh, just accelerating that
deployment all in service of our
mission.
Good news to our team in London. Well,
we covered a lot, Dmitri, from the very
early days where you could get a lot of
distance with not a lot of technology to
then persisting through extremely hard
times in autonomous vehicles and getting
that extra mile. We talked about world
models, uh, driver simulator critic
architecture. We got into the hardware,
the sixth generation hardware, safety
and scaling. Uh, but most of all, I hope
that we learned a little bit more about
Dmitri, the man who's brought the magic
that is Waymo to to so many of us. And
as I've gotten to know you more and
more, I'm constantly struck not only by
your your brilliance and your
persistence and performance, but also
your humility.
Uh, it says a lot for accomplishing this
much. Thank you, Dmitri. Please join me
in thanking Dmitri for all he does.
Thank [applause] you. Thank you. Thank
you. And the many lives saved. Thank
you.